readme.rst, before:

============================
Nate Eagleson's Emacs Config
============================

Ever since `Dr. Bui <http://cs.hbg.psu.edu/~bui/>`__ told our C++ programming
class to use it for programming in the Sun lab, Emacs has been my editor.

On that first encounter, I was put off by its user interface, which is
obscurantist at best. I discovered that the default install is incredibly
unwieldy, and I was not impressed with how little it believed in graphical
environments.

Nonetheless, I learned the basic keybindings and used it for assignments, often
via a terminal over SSH.

After a naive search for the perfect editor in my early twenties (I narrowly
avoided wasting years writing one), in 2009 I decided to learn Emacs well,
since I knew a lot of its shortcuts and had decided to stick with an editor.

A year or two into the project, I realized my dream editor had been sitting in
my lap all along, if only I had tried to learn it.


Why Emacs (or: Hokey Religions and Ancient Weapons)
===================================================

Like all art forms, programming has technique.

A musician's technique is how he makes the instrument produce sound.

A painter's technique is how she puts paint on the canvas.

A programmer's technique is how he gives the computer instructions.

Despite the grumbling from the graphical language crowd, most programming comes
down to entering, reading, and changing plain text in files.

Thus, a programmer should manipulate text fluidly and effortlessly, the way a
pianist plays arpeggios or a painter wields a brush.

Changing editors for each language complicates technique. Eclipse for Java,
PyCharm for Python, Sublime for JavaScript... The user interface, keyboard
shortcuts, and mental model for editing a program are different in each of
these, and over a lifetime adds cognitive burden.

Instead of changing editors for each language, a programmer's editor should
adapt itself to each language, so that the technique of programming remains
unchanged.

In the same way, the programmer should not adapt herself to the editor -
the editor should adapt to her.

For these purposes, Emacs reigns supreme.

It has been honed over decades to a razor-sharp edge, it runs almost
everywhere, and it can be rewritten without restarting it.


My Setup
========

Emacs' default keybindings are powerful but verbose. They're hard to type and
may be why `RMS has had wrist problems
<https://stallman.org/stallman-computing.html>`__. I use `evil-mode
<https://gitorious.org/evil/pages/Home>`__ for vim-style modal editing, which
fits my brain and makes my hands hurt less. `evil-leader
<https://github.com/cofi/evil-leader>`__, `evil-commentary
<https://github.com/linktohack/evil-commentary>`__, `evil-surround
<https://github.com/timcharper/evil-surround>`__, and `evil-avy
<https://github.com/louy2/evil-avy>`__ make it even better.

I'm slowly moving to `use-package <https://github.com/jwiegley/use-package>`__
for configuring and loading packages on-demand. It's a huge improvement over my
accumulated piles of ad-hoc code.

I use `flycheck <https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck>`__ for style-checking
just about everything, and install the relevant checkers whenever I start
working with a new language.

I use `smartparens <https://github.com/Fuco1/smartparens>`__ to insert paired
characters (:code:`()`, :code:`[]`, :code:`{}`, etc). It also has powerful
navigation features I haven't really learned to use.

I use `yasnippet <http://capitaomorte.github.io/yasnippet/>`__ to insert code
snippets, so I don't have to type as much in verbose languages. I mostly use it
for language constructs, since anything more is usually bad for codebase health
(one-time code generation makes for WET code, and fixes in the generator
rarely make it to previously-generated code).

I use `Solarized <https://github.com/bbatsov/solarized-emacs>`__ as my color
theme and flip between light and dark variants based on lighting conditions.

I use `undo-tree <http://www.dr-qubit.org/emacs.php#undo-tree>`__ to make
Emacs' infinite-undo feature more usable. I have occasionally been bitten by a
bug that loses part of undo history, but have not been able to reproduce it
consistently - it may relate to `undo in region
<https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-gnu-emacs/2014-01/msg01106.html>`__. I
just upgraded to Emacs 25.2.1, which the author says `should mean this stops
happening <https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/bugreport.cgi?bug=16377#52>`__. Alas, I
have seen it happen since then, as have some people in this thread:
https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs/issues/298 . Some on the net have
proposed that setting `undo-tree-enable-undo-in-region` to `nil` might solve
the issue, which at least one person in that thread says did not work. Others
have suggested it seems to relate to persistent undo history or perhaps to
working in version control repos, and certainly it seems to be more common for
evil-mode users than others. I have turned off undo in region and undo tree's
support for saving undo history to see if that helps (as of 2018-11-05). I just
discovered this bug report that has a plausible-sounding analysis of the bug's
root cause: https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/bugreport.cgi?bug=27214

I use `helm <http://emacs-helm.github.io/helm/>`__ to find files and commands
quickly and easily. `helm-swoop
<https://github.com/ShingoFukuyama/helm-swoop>`__ is pretty neat too.

I use `backup-walker <https://github.com/lewang/backup-walker>`__ to search
through a file's backups when I need an older version I didn't commit. I store
all backups in `autosaves/` and back up on every save, even in version control
repositories. I have not lost a line of code since setting this up.

I have a decent Python setup, with `Jedi
<http://jedi.jedidjah.ch/en/latest/>`__ for auto-complete, jump-to-definition
and docstring display. I taught it to auto-detect virtualenvs in a project's
directory with jedi-force.el.

I don't write much C these days, but I do use it to customize my ErgoDox EZ's
keymap, and I do read C codebases occasionally. Thus, I have c-mode set up to
use `cquery <https://github.com/cquery-project/cquery>`__ so I can jump to
definitions easily (paired with `intercept-build
<https://github.com/rizsotto/scan-build>`__ to generate
`compile_commands.json`) .

I use a combination of `js2-mode <https://github.com/mooz/js2-mode>`__,
`Tern.js <http://ternjs.net/>`__,
`eslint <http://eslint.org/>`__ (via flycheck),
`js2-refactor <https://github.com/magnars/js2-refactor.el>`__ and
`skewer-mode <https://github.com/skeeto/skewer-mode>`__
for live-editing browser-based JavaScript. In theory this should be awesome,
and it's not bad, but there are some kinks to work out.

My PHP setup has undergone bitrot over the past few years, but I'm starting to
pay attention to it again. Felix Becker's excellent `php-language-server
<https://github.com/felixfbecker/php-language-server>`__ means good PHP
intelligence in Emacs is possible. After some tinkering and a PR to `lsp-mode
<https://github.com/emacs-lsp/lsp-mode>`__ I have jump-to-definition and
completion-at-point working. It's a huge step up from my past setup, but it can
certainly be much better.

For editing web templates, I use the awesome `web-mode
<http://web-mode.org/>`__ with several extensions, including `emmet-mode
<https://github.com/smihica/emmet-mode>`__.

I use css-mode for CSS, which is somewhat lacking, but I use
`skewer-reload-stylesheets
<https://github.com/NateEag/skewer-reload-stylesheets>`__ to live-edit, and
that makes life better.

Look in todo.txt and tell me about entries that can be resolved by turning on
built-in features. I've found a few and would not mind finding more.


Layout
======

elpa/ - elisp packages installed via package.el. I keep this under version
control to make installing my config simpler, so I can always return to a
known-good state if an upgrade has unwanted effects, and so my configuration is
less dependent on third-party services. `This
<https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs/issues/10244>`__ is a good example of
why I do this - none of the reporters in that thread would have had a problem
if they kept this dir in their config repos.

githooks/ - a few git hooks to aid in hacking on this config, mostly useful
when pushing config changes between multiple machines.

init.el - where the magic begins.

site-lisp/ - elisp packages I update manually. Some are not available via
package.el while others are my own. There are probably some third-party
libraries that I never realized are on package.el, too.

snippets/ - my personal yasnippets, augmenting the base yasnippet collection.


OS X Setup
==========

I use the `Emacs for OS X build <https://emacsformacosx.com/>`__, and had a
hard time making it play nicely with command-line tools that use emacs like
`Cask <https://github.com/cask/cask>`__.

I eventually solved it by copying the shell script at
`Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/Emacs` to `Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/emacs`, since
`Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/` was already on my `$PATH`.

I'm not sure why just putting a symlink on `$PATH` didn't work for me, but it
didn't.


Notes On Debugging Emacs Lisp
=============================

`debug-on-entry` and `cancel-debug-on-entry` are gold for debugging right in
your current Emacs. Figure out what function's breaking and use
`debug-on-entry` to jump into debugging when you run your reproduction recipe.
Press '?' after the debugger starts to see what keys do what.

Don't try to debug compiled functions, because you can't see much useful that
way. Since I compile everything that means I need to manually eval function
definitions before I debug - there must be a better way. Maybe I could advise
`debug-on-entry` so it evals the function before starting debugging, if a
compiled version is loaded?

Commit message:

Note that I just saw the stupid undo-tree-canary bug again
It had been a long time.

But it's still there.

readme.rst, after:

============================
Nate Eagleson's Emacs Config
============================

Ever since `Dr. Bui <http://cs.hbg.psu.edu/~bui/>`__ told our C++ programming
class to use it for programming in the Sun lab, Emacs has been my editor.

On that first encounter, I was put off by its user interface, which is
obscurantist at best. I discovered that the default install is incredibly
unwieldy, and I was not impressed with how little it believed in graphical
environments.

Nonetheless, I learned the basic keybindings and used it for assignments, often
via a terminal over SSH.

After a naive search for the perfect editor in my early twenties (I narrowly
avoided wasting years writing one), in 2009 I decided to learn Emacs well,
since I knew a lot of its shortcuts and had decided to stick with an editor.

A year or two into the project, I realized my dream editor had been sitting in
my lap all along, if only I had tried to learn it.


Why Emacs (or: Hokey Religions and Ancient Weapons)
===================================================

Like all art forms, programming has technique.

A musician's technique is how he makes the instrument produce sound.

A painter's technique is how she puts paint on the canvas.

A programmer's technique is how he gives the computer instructions.

Despite the grumbling from the graphical language crowd, most programming comes
down to entering, reading, and changing plain text in files.

Thus, a programmer should manipulate text fluidly and effortlessly, the way a
pianist plays arpeggios or a painter wields a brush.

Changing editors for each language complicates technique. Eclipse for Java,
PyCharm for Python, Sublime for JavaScript... The user interface, keyboard
shortcuts, and mental model for editing a program are different in each of
these, and over a lifetime adds cognitive burden.

Instead of changing editors for each language, a programmer's editor should
adapt itself to each language, so that the technique of programming remains
unchanged.

In the same way, the programmer should not adapt herself to the editor -
the editor should adapt to her.

For these purposes, Emacs reigns supreme.

It has been honed over decades to a razor-sharp edge, it runs almost
everywhere, and it can be rewritten without restarting it.


My Setup
========

Emacs' default keybindings are powerful but verbose. They're hard to type and
may be why `RMS has had wrist problems
<https://stallman.org/stallman-computing.html>`__. I use `evil-mode
<https://gitorious.org/evil/pages/Home>`__ for vim-style modal editing, which
fits my brain and makes my hands hurt less. `evil-leader
<https://github.com/cofi/evil-leader>`__, `evil-commentary
<https://github.com/linktohack/evil-commentary>`__, `evil-surround
<https://github.com/timcharper/evil-surround>`__, and `evil-avy
<https://github.com/louy2/evil-avy>`__ make it even better.

I'm slowly moving to `use-package <https://github.com/jwiegley/use-package>`__
for configuring and loading packages on-demand. It's a huge improvement over my
accumulated piles of ad-hoc code.

I use `flycheck <https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck>`__ for style-checking
just about everything, and install the relevant checkers whenever I start
working with a new language.

I use `smartparens <https://github.com/Fuco1/smartparens>`__ to insert paired
characters (:code:`()`, :code:`[]`, :code:`{}`, etc). It also has powerful
navigation features I haven't really learned to use.

I use `yasnippet <http://capitaomorte.github.io/yasnippet/>`__ to insert code
snippets, so I don't have to type as much in verbose languages. I mostly use it
for language constructs, since anything more is usually bad for codebase health
(one-time code generation makes for WET code, and fixes in the generator
rarely make it to previously-generated code).

I use `Solarized <https://github.com/bbatsov/solarized-emacs>`__ as my color
theme and flip between light and dark variants based on lighting conditions.

I use `undo-tree <http://www.dr-qubit.org/emacs.php#undo-tree>`__ to make
Emacs' infinite-undo feature more usable. I have occasionally been bitten by a
bug that loses part of undo history, but have not been able to reproduce it
consistently - it may relate to `undo in region
<https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-gnu-emacs/2014-01/msg01106.html>`__. I
just upgraded to Emacs 25.2.1, which the author says `should mean this stops
happening <https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/bugreport.cgi?bug=16377#52>`__. Alas, I
have seen it happen since then, as have some people in this thread:
https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs/issues/298 . Some on the net have
proposed that setting `undo-tree-enable-undo-in-region` to `nil` might solve
the issue, which at least one person in that thread says did not work. Others
have suggested it seems to relate to persistent undo history or perhaps to
working in version control repos, and certainly it seems to be more common for
evil-mode users than others. I have turned off undo in region and undo tree's
support for saving undo history to see if that helps (as of 2018-11-05). I just
discovered this bug report that has a plausible-sounding analysis of the bug's
root cause: https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/bugreport.cgi?bug=27214 I saw the bug
for the first time in a long while on 2019-11-20.

I use `helm <http://emacs-helm.github.io/helm/>`__ to find files and commands
quickly and easily. `helm-swoop
<https://github.com/ShingoFukuyama/helm-swoop>`__ is pretty neat too.

I use `backup-walker <https://github.com/lewang/backup-walker>`__ to search
through a file's backups when I need an older version I didn't commit. I store
all backups in `autosaves/` and back up on every save, even in version control
repositories. I have not lost a line of code since setting this up.

I have a decent Python setup, with `Jedi
<http://jedi.jedidjah.ch/en/latest/>`__ for auto-complete, jump-to-definition
and docstring display. I taught it to auto-detect virtualenvs in a project's
directory with jedi-force.el.

I don't write much C these days, but I do use it to customize my ErgoDox EZ's
keymap, and I do read C codebases occasionally. Thus, I have c-mode set up to
use `cquery <https://github.com/cquery-project/cquery>`__ so I can jump to
definitions easily (paired with `intercept-build
<https://github.com/rizsotto/scan-build>`__ to generate
`compile_commands.json`) .

I use a combination of `js2-mode <https://github.com/mooz/js2-mode>`__,
`Tern.js <http://ternjs.net/>`__,
`eslint <http://eslint.org/>`__ (via flycheck),
`js2-refactor <https://github.com/magnars/js2-refactor.el>`__ and
`skewer-mode <https://github.com/skeeto/skewer-mode>`__
for live-editing browser-based JavaScript. In theory this should be awesome,
and it's not bad, but there are some kinks to work out.

My PHP setup has undergone bitrot over the past few years, but I'm starting to
pay attention to it again. Felix Becker's excellent `php-language-server
<https://github.com/felixfbecker/php-language-server>`__ means good PHP
intelligence in Emacs is possible. After some tinkering and a PR to `lsp-mode
<https://github.com/emacs-lsp/lsp-mode>`__ I have jump-to-definition and
completion-at-point working. It's a huge step up from my past setup, but it can
certainly be much better.

For editing web templates, I use the awesome `web-mode
<http://web-mode.org/>`__ with several extensions, including `emmet-mode
<https://github.com/smihica/emmet-mode>`__.

I use css-mode for CSS, which is somewhat lacking, but I use
`skewer-reload-stylesheets
<https://github.com/NateEag/skewer-reload-stylesheets>`__ to live-edit, and
that makes life better.

Look in todo.txt and tell me about entries that can be resolved by turning on
built-in features. I've found a few and would not mind finding more.


Layout
======

elpa/ - elisp packages installed via package.el. I keep this under version
control to make installing my config simpler, so I can always return to a
known-good state if an upgrade has unwanted effects, and so my configuration is
less dependent on third-party services. `This
<https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs/issues/10244>`__ is a good example of
why I do this - none of the reporters in that thread would have had a problem
if they kept this dir in their config repos.

githooks/ - a few git hooks to aid in hacking on this config, mostly useful
when pushing config changes between multiple machines.

init.el - where the magic begins.

site-lisp/ - elisp packages I update manually. Some are not available via
package.el while others are my own. There are probably some third-party
libraries that I never realized are on package.el, too.

snippets/ - my personal yasnippets, augmenting the base yasnippet collection.


OS X Setup
==========

I use the `Emacs for OS X build <https://emacsformacosx.com/>`__, and had a
hard time making it play nicely with command-line tools that use emacs like
`Cask <https://github.com/cask/cask>`__.

I eventually solved it by copying the shell script at
`Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/Emacs` to `Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/emacs`, since
`Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/` was already on my `$PATH`.

I'm not sure why just putting a symlink on `$PATH` didn't work for me, but it
didn't.


Notes On Debugging Emacs Lisp
=============================

`debug-on-entry` and `cancel-debug-on-entry` are gold for debugging right in
your current Emacs. Figure out what function's breaking and use
`debug-on-entry` to jump into debugging when you run your reproduction recipe.
Press '?' after the debugger starts to see what keys do what.

Don't try to debug compiled functions, because you can't see much useful that
way. Since I compile everything that means I need to manually eval function
definitions before I debug - there must be a better way. Maybe I could advise
`debug-on-entry` so it evals the function before starting debugging, if a
compiled version is loaded?
