readme.md, before:

# Nate Eagleson's Emacs Config

Ever since [Dr. Bui](http://cs.hbg.psu.edu/~bui/) told our C++ programming
class to use it for programming in the Sun lab, Emacs has been my editor.

On that first encounter, I was put off by its user interface, which is
obscurantist at best. I discovered that the default install is
incredibly unwieldy, and I was not impressed with how little it believed
in graphical environments.

Nonetheless, I learned the basic keybindings and used it for
assignments, often via a terminal over SSH.

After a naive search for the perfect editor in my early twenties (I
narrowly avoided wasting years writing one), in 2009 I decided to learn
Emacs well, since I knew a lot of its shortcuts and had decided to stick
with an editor.

A year or two into the project, I realized my dream editor had been
sitting in my lap all along, if only I had tried to learn it.

## Why Emacs (or: Hokey Religions and Ancient Weapons)

Like all art forms, programming has technique.

A musician's technique is how he makes the instrument produce sound.

A painter's technique is how she puts paint on the canvas.

A programmer's technique is how he gives the computer instructions.

Despite the grumbling from the graphical language crowd, most
programming comes down to entering, reading, and changing plain text in
files.

Thus, a programmer should manipulate text fluidly and effortlessly, the
way a pianist plays arpeggios or a painter wields a brush.

Changing editors for each language complicates technique. Eclipse for Java,
PyCharm for Python, Sublime for JavaScript... The user interface, keyboard
shortcuts, and mental model for editing a program are different in each of
these, and over a lifetime adds cognitive burden.

Instead of changing editors for each language, a programmer's editor
should adapt itself to each language, so that the technique of
programming remains unchanged.

In the same way, the programmer should not adapt herself to the editor
-the editor should adapt to her.

For these purposes, Emacs reigns supreme.

It has been honed over decades to a razor-sharp edge, it runs almost
everywhere, and it can be rewritten without restarting it.

## My Setup

Emacs' default keybindings are powerful but verbose. They're hard to
type and may be why [RMS has had wrist
problems](https://stallman.org/stallman-computing.html). I use
[evil-mode](https://gitorious.org/evil/pages/Home) for vim-style modal
editing, which fits my brain and makes my hands hurt less.
[evil-leader](https://github.com/cofi/evil-leader),
[evil-commentary](https://github.com/linktohack/evil-commentary),
[evil-surround](https://github.com/timcharper/evil-surround), and
[evil-avy](https://github.com/louy2/evil-avy) make it even better.

I'm slowly moving to [use-package](https://github.com/jwiegley/use-package) for
configuring and loading packages on-demand. It's a huge improvement over my
accumulated piles of ad-hoc code.

I use [flycheck](https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck) for
style-checking just about everything, and install the relevant checkers
whenever I start working with a new language.

I use [smartparens](https://github.com/Fuco1/smartparens) to insert
paired characters (`()`, `[]`, `{}`, etc). It also has powerful
navigation features I haven't really learned to use.

I use [yasnippet](http://capitaomorte.github.io/yasnippet/) to insert
code snippets, so I don't have to type as much in verbose languages. I
mostly use it for language constructs, since anything more is usually
bad for codebase health (one-time code generation makes for WET code,
and fixes in the generator rarely make it to previously-generated code).

I use [Solarized](https://github.com/bbatsov/solarized-emacs) as my
color theme and flip between light and dark variants based on lighting
conditions.

I use [undo-tree](http://www.dr-qubit.org/emacs.php#undo-tree) to make Emacs'
infinite-undo feature more usable. I have occasionally been bitten by a bug
that loses part of undo history, but have not been able to reproduce it
consistently - it may relate to [undo in
region](https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-gnu-emacs/2014-01/msg01106.html).
I just upgraded to Emacs 25.2.1, which the author says [should mean this stops
happening](https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/bugreport.cgi?bug=16377#52). Alas, I
have seen it happen since then, as have some people in this thread:
<https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs/issues/298>. Some on the net have
proposed that setting `undo-tree-enable-undo-in-region` to `nil` might solve
the issue, which at least one person in that thread says did not work. Others
have suggested it seems to relate to persistent undo history or perhaps to
working in version control repos, and certainly it seems to be more common for
evil-mode users than others. I have turned off undo in region and undo tree's
support for saving undo history to see if that helps (as of 2018-11-05). I just
discovered this bug report that has a plausible-sounding analysis of the bug's
root cause: <https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/bugreport.cgi?bug=27214> I saw the bug
for the first time in a long while on 2019-11-20.

I am trying out replacing [Helm](http://emacs-helm.github.io/helm/) with
[Ivy](https://oremacs.com/swiper/) to find files and commands quickly
and easily. [Swiper](https://github.com/abo-abo/swiper#swiper) has
accordingly replaced
[helm-swoop](https://github.com/ShingoFukuyama/helm-swoop).

I use [magit](https://magit.vc) for version control with
[git](https://git-scm.org). It really is magical and hides a lot of Git's worst
UI flaws. I sometimes use its [forge](https://magit.vc/manual/forge/) plugin
for interacting with external Git hosting services like GitHub and GitLab. Note
that getting it set up with GitLab is a minor pain - you must create an API
token manually and drop it in your \~/.authsource.gpg file [per the
docs](https://magit.vc/manual/ghub/How-Ghub-uses-Auth_002dSource.html#How-Ghub-uses-Auth_002dSource).

I use [backup-walker](https://github.com/lewang/backup-walker) to search
through a file's backups when I need an older version I didn't commit. I store
all backups in `autosaves/` and back up on every save, even in version control
repositories. I have not lost a line of code since setting this up.

I have a decent Python setup, with [Jedi](http://jedi.jedidjah.ch/en/latest/)
for auto-complete, jump-to-definition and docstring display. I taught it to
auto-detect virtualenvs in a project's directory with jedi-force.el.

I don't write much C these days, but I do use it to customize my ErgoDox EZ's
keymap, and I do read C codebases occasionally. Thus, I have c-mode set up to
use [cquery](https://github.com/cquery-project/cquery) so I can jump to
definitions easily (paired with
[intercept-build](https://github.com/rizsotto/scan-build) to generate
`compile_commands.json`) .

I use a combination of [js2-mode](https://github.com/mooz/js2-mode),
[Tern.js](http://ternjs.net/), [eslint](http://eslint.org/) (via flycheck),
[js2-refactor](https://github.com/magnars/js2-refactor.el) and
[skewer-mode](https://github.com/skeeto/skewer-mode) for live-editing
browser-based JavaScript. In theory this should be awesome, and it's not bad,
but there are some kinks to work out.

My PHP setup has undergone bitrot over the past few years, but I'm starting to
pay attention to it again. Felix Becker's excellent
[php-language-server](https://github.com/felixfbecker/php-language-server)
means good PHP intelligence in Emacs is possible (though there are now several
other more-maintained OSS options I want to check out). After some tinkering
and a PR to [lsp-mode](https://github.com/emacs-lsp/lsp-mode) I have
jump-to-definition and completion-at-point working. It's a huge step up from my
past setup, but it can certainly be much better.

For editing web templates, I use the awesome
[web-mode](http://web-mode.org/) with several extensions, including
[emmet-mode](https://github.com/smihica/emmet-mode).

I use css-mode for CSS, which is somewhat lacking, but I use
[skewer-reload-stylesheets](https://github.com/NateEag/skewer-reload-stylesheets)
to live-edit, and that makes life better.

I've been doing a decent amount of devops work using
[Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) lately, so I've got yaml-mode set up with
an Ansible-specific poly-mode and lsp-mode +
[yaml-language-server](https://github.com/redhat-developer/yaml-language-server).
There's definitely some massaging to do, but it makes Ansible development much
less painful.

I'm starting an experiment in using
[chemacs](https://github.com/plexus/chemacs) to let me swap between profiles,
so I can try out different setups. I'm curious about Doom, and I'd also like a
simple way to write bug reproduction scripts starting with the huge collection
of packages my heavily-customized setup uses, and I think it might just be the
ticket.

Look in todo.txt and tell me about entries that can be resolved by turning on
built-in features. I've found a few and would not mind finding more.

## Layout

elpa/ - elisp packages installed via package.el. I keep this under
version control to make installing my config simpler, so I can always
return to a known-good state if an upgrade has unwanted effects, and so
my configuration is less dependent on third-party services.
[This](https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs/issues/10244) is a good
example of why I do this - none of the reporters in that thread would
have had a problem if they kept this dir in their config repos.

githooks/ - a few git hooks to aid in hacking on this config, mostly
useful when pushing config changes between multiple machines.

init.el - where the magic begins.

site-lisp/ - elisp packages I update manually. Some are not available
via package.el while others are my own. There are probably some
third-party libraries that I never realized are on package.el, too.

snippets/ - my personal yasnippets, augmenting the base yasnippet
collection.

## OS X Setup

I used to use the [Emacs for OS X build](https://emacsformacosx.com/) (I
now build my own emacs to get support for automatic image resizing via
ImageMagick), and had a hard time making it play nicely with
command-line tools that use emacs like
[Cask](https://github.com/cask/cask).

I eventually solved it by copying the shell script at
`Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/Emacs` to `Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/emacs`, since
`Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/` was already on my `$PATH`.

I'm not sure why just putting a symlink on `$PATH` didn't
work for me, but it didn't.

## Notes On Debugging Emacs Lisp

`debug-on-entry` and `cancel-debug-on-entry` are gold for debugging right in
your current Emacs. Figure out what function's breaking and use
`debug-on-entry` to jump into debugging when you run your reproduction recipe.
Press '?' after the debugger starts to see what keys do what.

Don't try to debug compiled functions, because you can't see much useful that
way. Since I compile everything that means I need to manually eval function
definitions before I debug - there must be a better way. Maybe I could advise
`debug-on-entry` so it evals the function before starting debugging, if a
compiled version is loaded?

Commit message:

Add a brief explanation of my email config to the readme
mostly so I don't forget the configuration hoop I had to jump through
in order to get sending email working for $DAYJOB.

readme.md, after:

# Nate Eagleson's Emacs Config

Ever since [Dr. Bui](http://cs.hbg.psu.edu/~bui/) told our C++ programming
class to use it for programming in the Sun lab, Emacs has been my editor.

On that first encounter, I was put off by its user interface, which is
obscurantist at best. I discovered that the default install is
incredibly unwieldy, and I was not impressed with how little it believed
in graphical environments.

Nonetheless, I learned the basic keybindings and used it for
assignments, often via a terminal over SSH.

After a naive search for the perfect editor in my early twenties (I
narrowly avoided wasting years writing one), in 2009 I decided to learn
Emacs well, since I knew a lot of its shortcuts and had decided to stick
with an editor.

A year or two into the project, I realized my dream editor had been
sitting in my lap all along, if only I had tried to learn it.

## Why Emacs (or: Hokey Religions and Ancient Weapons)

Like all art forms, programming has technique.

A musician's technique is how he makes the instrument produce sound.

A painter's technique is how she puts paint on the canvas.

A programmer's technique is how he gives the computer instructions.

Despite the grumbling from the graphical language crowd, most
programming comes down to entering, reading, and changing plain text in
files.

Thus, a programmer should manipulate text fluidly and effortlessly, the
way a pianist plays arpeggios or a painter wields a brush.

Changing editors for each language complicates technique. Eclipse for Java,
PyCharm for Python, Sublime for JavaScript... The user interface, keyboard
shortcuts, and mental model for editing a program are different in each of
these, and over a lifetime adds cognitive burden.

Instead of changing editors for each language, a programmer's editor
should adapt itself to each language, so that the technique of
programming remains unchanged.

In the same way, the programmer should not adapt herself to the editor
-the editor should adapt to her.

For these purposes, Emacs reigns supreme.

It has been honed over decades to a razor-sharp edge, it runs almost
everywhere, and it can be rewritten without restarting it.

## My Setup

Emacs' default keybindings are powerful but verbose. They're hard to
type and may be why [RMS has had wrist
problems](https://stallman.org/stallman-computing.html). I use
[evil-mode](https://gitorious.org/evil/pages/Home) for vim-style modal
editing, which fits my brain and makes my hands hurt less.
[evil-leader](https://github.com/cofi/evil-leader),
[evil-commentary](https://github.com/linktohack/evil-commentary),
[evil-surround](https://github.com/timcharper/evil-surround), and
[evil-avy](https://github.com/louy2/evil-avy) make it even better.

I'm slowly moving to [use-package](https://github.com/jwiegley/use-package) for
configuring and loading packages on-demand. It's a huge improvement over my
accumulated piles of ad-hoc code.

I use [flycheck](https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck) for
style-checking just about everything, and install the relevant checkers
whenever I start working with a new language.

I use [smartparens](https://github.com/Fuco1/smartparens) to insert
paired characters (`()`, `[]`, `{}`, etc). It also has powerful
navigation features I haven't really learned to use.

I use [yasnippet](http://capitaomorte.github.io/yasnippet/) to insert
code snippets, so I don't have to type as much in verbose languages. I
mostly use it for language constructs, since anything more is usually
bad for codebase health (one-time code generation makes for WET code,
and fixes in the generator rarely make it to previously-generated code).

I use [Solarized](https://github.com/bbatsov/solarized-emacs) as my
color theme and flip between light and dark variants based on lighting
conditions.

I use [undo-tree](http://www.dr-qubit.org/emacs.php#undo-tree) to make Emacs'
infinite-undo feature more usable. I have occasionally been bitten by a bug
that loses part of undo history, but have not been able to reproduce it
consistently - it may relate to [undo in
region](https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-gnu-emacs/2014-01/msg01106.html).
I just upgraded to Emacs 25.2.1, which the author says [should mean this stops
happening](https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/bugreport.cgi?bug=16377#52). Alas, I
have seen it happen since then, as have some people in this thread:
<https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs/issues/298>. Some on the net have
proposed that setting `undo-tree-enable-undo-in-region` to `nil` might solve
the issue, which at least one person in that thread says did not work. Others
have suggested it seems to relate to persistent undo history or perhaps to
working in version control repos, and certainly it seems to be more common for
evil-mode users than others. I have turned off undo in region and undo tree's
support for saving undo history to see if that helps (as of 2018-11-05). I just
discovered this bug report that has a plausible-sounding analysis of the bug's
root cause: <https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/bugreport.cgi?bug=27214> I saw the bug
for the first time in a long while on 2019-11-20.

I am trying out replacing [Helm](http://emacs-helm.github.io/helm/) with
[Ivy](https://oremacs.com/swiper/) to find files and commands quickly
and easily. [Swiper](https://github.com/abo-abo/swiper#swiper) has
accordingly replaced
[helm-swoop](https://github.com/ShingoFukuyama/helm-swoop).

I use [magit](https://magit.vc) for version control with
[git](https://git-scm.org). It really is magical and hides a lot of Git's worst
UI flaws. I sometimes use its [forge](https://magit.vc/manual/forge/) plugin
for interacting with external Git hosting services like GitHub and GitLab. Note
that getting it set up with GitLab is a minor pain - you must create an API
token manually and drop it in your \~/.authsource.gpg file [per the
docs](https://magit.vc/manual/ghub/How-Ghub-uses-Auth_002dSource.html#How-Ghub-uses-Auth_002dSource).

I use [backup-walker](https://github.com/lewang/backup-walker) to search
through a file's backups when I need an older version I didn't commit. I store
all backups in `autosaves/` and back up on every save, even in version control
repositories. I have not lost a line of code since setting this up.

I have a decent Python setup, with [Jedi](http://jedi.jedidjah.ch/en/latest/)
for auto-complete, jump-to-definition and docstring display. I taught it to
auto-detect virtualenvs in a project's directory with jedi-force.el.

I don't write much C these days, but I do use it to customize my ErgoDox EZ's
keymap, and I do read C codebases occasionally. Thus, I have c-mode set up to
use [cquery](https://github.com/cquery-project/cquery) so I can jump to
definitions easily (paired with
[intercept-build](https://github.com/rizsotto/scan-build) to generate
`compile_commands.json`) .

I use a combination of [js2-mode](https://github.com/mooz/js2-mode),
[Tern.js](http://ternjs.net/), [eslint](http://eslint.org/) (via flycheck),
[js2-refactor](https://github.com/magnars/js2-refactor.el) and
[skewer-mode](https://github.com/skeeto/skewer-mode) for live-editing
browser-based JavaScript. In theory this should be awesome, and it's not bad,
but there are some kinks to work out.

My PHP setup has undergone bitrot over the past few years, but I'm starting to
pay attention to it again. Felix Becker's excellent
[php-language-server](https://github.com/felixfbecker/php-language-server)
means good PHP intelligence in Emacs is possible (though there are now several
other more-maintained OSS options I want to check out). After some tinkering
and a PR to [lsp-mode](https://github.com/emacs-lsp/lsp-mode) I have
jump-to-definition and completion-at-point working. It's a huge step up from my
past setup, but it can certainly be much better.

For editing web templates, I use the awesome
[web-mode](http://web-mode.org/) with several extensions, including
[emmet-mode](https://github.com/smihica/emmet-mode).

I use [mbsync](https://isync.sourceforge.io/) to retrieve received emails from
servers (and follow [this handy guide for using it with corporate SSO 2FA Gmail
accounts](http://frostyx.cz/posts/synchronize-your-2fa-gmail-with-mbsync) when
needed). I use [notmuch](https://notmuch.readthedocs.io/) and [associated Emacs
modes](https://notmuchmail.org/notmuch-emacs/) for organizing and reading my
email. I use `notmuch-message-mode` for writing email and
[auth-source-pass](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/auth.html#The-Unix-password-store)
for giving emacs my credentials when sending email (for reasons unclear to me,
I've had to use the `domain.tld:<port>.gpg` naming format to get
`auth-source-pass-search` to find my creds - including `username@domain.tld`
has caused it to not find my credentials).

I use css-mode for CSS, which is somewhat lacking, but I use
[skewer-reload-stylesheets](https://github.com/NateEag/skewer-reload-stylesheets)
to live-edit, and that makes life better.

I've been doing a decent amount of devops work using
[Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) lately, so I've got yaml-mode set up with
an Ansible-specific poly-mode and lsp-mode +
[yaml-language-server](https://github.com/redhat-developer/yaml-language-server).
There's definitely some massaging to do, but it makes Ansible development much
less painful.

I'm starting an experiment in using
[chemacs](https://github.com/plexus/chemacs) to let me swap between profiles,
so I can try out different setups. I'm curious about Doom, and I'd also like a
simple way to write bug reproduction scripts starting with the huge collection
of packages my heavily-customized setup uses, and I think it might just be the
ticket.

Look in todo.txt and tell me about entries that can be resolved by turning on
built-in features. I've found a few and would not mind finding more.

## Layout

elpa/ - elisp packages installed via package.el. I keep this under
version control to make installing my config simpler, so I can always
return to a known-good state if an upgrade has unwanted effects, and so
my configuration is less dependent on third-party services.
[This](https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs/issues/10244) is a good
example of why I do this - none of the reporters in that thread would
have had a problem if they kept this dir in their config repos.

githooks/ - a few git hooks to aid in hacking on this config, mostly
useful when pushing config changes between multiple machines.

init.el - where the magic begins.

site-lisp/ - elisp packages I update manually. Some are not available
via package.el while others are my own. There are probably some
third-party libraries that I never realized are on package.el, too.

snippets/ - my personal yasnippets, augmenting the base yasnippet
collection.

## OS X Setup

I used to use the [Emacs for OS X build](https://emacsformacosx.com/) (I
now build my own emacs to get support for automatic image resizing via
ImageMagick), and had a hard time making it play nicely with
command-line tools that use emacs like
[Cask](https://github.com/cask/cask).

I eventually solved it by copying the shell script at
`Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/Emacs` to `Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/emacs`, since
`Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/` was already on my `$PATH`.

I'm not sure why just putting a symlink on `$PATH` didn't
work for me, but it didn't.

## Notes On Debugging Emacs Lisp

`debug-on-entry` and `cancel-debug-on-entry` are gold for debugging right in
your current Emacs. Figure out what function's breaking and use
`debug-on-entry` to jump into debugging when you run your reproduction recipe.
Press '?' after the debugger starts to see what keys do what.

Don't try to debug compiled functions, because you can't see much useful that
way. Since I compile everything that means I need to manually eval function
definitions before I debug - there must be a better way. Maybe I could advise
`debug-on-entry` so it evals the function before starting debugging, if a
compiled version is loaded?
